Update example project in Using GitHub's Copilot lesson (#20)
Ada-Developers-Academy/independent-ai-topics: working-w-copilot/copilot-in-projects-refactoring.md

#  Copilot in Projects Pt. 2 - Improving Wave 1

## Goals

We've used Copilot to generate new code in a project, but we saw examples where the code generated wasn't following best practices, especially around avoiding repetition. 

> Our goals for this lesson are to identify where Copilot can assist us to better follow best practices, specifically:

Reviewer: After the "better follow best" jumped out at me later on, I came back and found this one. And as long as I'm suggesting that, even though there are multiple facets to the goal, I read this as a single goal.

```suggestion
Our goal for this lesson is to identify where Copilot can help us more closely follow coding best practices, specifically:
```

> - writing cleaner code with the the D.R.Y. (Don't Repeat Yourself) principle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- writing cleaner code with the D.R.Y. (Don't Repeat Yourself) principle
```

- writing more Pythonic code by using patterns like list comprehensions 

### !callout-info

> 

Reviewer: We should remove the `br`s in the callouts, since style changes have made them unnecessary (and too tall).

Happily, we not only have tests for each function in Wave 1, but we added more test scenarios in the last lesson to cover missing edge cases! We can move forward with our code changes using the existing test suite to give us some security.

As with the `main` branch, only the tests in `tests/test_wave_1.py` should be discoverable and running currently, since we do not have placeholders in `app/game.py` for the remaining waves. Before we start a conversation with Copilot or change any code, we should ensure that we can run all the Wave 1 tests and see them pass.

To get started:
1. using your fork of the repo, checkout the branch [improvements-start](https://github.com/Ada-Activities/mastermind-copilot/tree/improvements-start) 
2. ensure you can run the wave 1 tests and see them pass

### !callout-info

## Saving Project Changes

If we want to keep any local changes that we made in the previous lesson, we recommend pausing to create a new branch from `main` and commit your changes before checking out the `improvements-start` branch. Git will not allow us to switch branches if we have uncommitted changes that would be overwritten by the destination branch.

> 1. To create a new branch from the current branch we are on, we can run the command: 

Reviewer: 👍 This feels like a good level of detail to provide to help folks save their work.

    valid_letters = ['R', 'O', 'Y', 'G', 'B', 'P']
    code = []
    
    # Generate a code of 4 random letters from valid_letters
    for _ in range(4):
        code.append(random.choice(valid_letters))

    return code

def validate_guess(guess):
    valid_letters = {'R', 'O', 'Y', 'G', 'B', 'P'}

    # Exit early if guess is not exactly 4 elements long
    if len(guess) != 4:
        return False
    
    # Convert guess to uppercase for case-insensitive comparison
    uppercased_guess = []
    for letter in guess:
        uppercased_guess.append(str(letter).upper())

    # Return False if we find an invalid element of guess
    for letter in uppercased_guess:
        if letter not in valid_letters:
            return False
        
    return True

def check_code_guessed(guess, code):
    # Convert guess to uppercase for case-insensitive comparison
    uppercased_guess = []
    for letter in guess:
        uppercased_guess.append(str(letter).upper())

    # Check if the guess and code are identical (win condition)
    # The guard clause guarantees the number of guesses is 8 or less
    if code == uppercased_guess:
        return True
    else: # Game is still in progress

>         return None

Reviewer: Shouldn't we bring forward the simplified version of `check_code_guessed`? I know there's text above saying that the functions have slightly different implementations, but this still has the `None` case for a game in progress which we removed since the check was simplified to focus on whether the code was a winning guess.

I know this will have a knock on effect throughout this section (as if we update the one function, we may as well pull forward all of them, which changes some of the edits), but jumping to a different implementation feels like it would be confusing for the reader.

Author: Ooo, great catch, this should have been be updated to explicitly return False instead of None

Author: Due to the scope of changes and potential rewrites that comes with bringing forward the changes from part 1, I'm extremely hesitant to do so at this point unless there were a strong need to do so. I think there is value in reminding folks that we can write code that does the same thing many different ways and to think about small adjustments we can make to get to cleaner code if we're starting from somewhere with many opportunities for improvement. 

Happy to chat about this more, for the moment, I have updated this code snippet and confirmed it's reflected in the mastermind repo branches, and I edited the one image that shows the incorrect prior text. I also updated the text above the new code to have a more clear reminder to observe that the implementations are different and observe what has changed.

>         return False

Reviewer: The last thing that's bothering me about this code is that now we're shoing the 
```py
if true_expr:
    return True
else:
    return False
```
antipattern. It was OK before since we were returning `None` in the falsy branch, but now it's returninf False.

Starting out with this is fine (it even mirros code that we might see students write), but that also then makes this feel like an ideal opportunity to explcitly fix this (whether through one more Copilot refactor, or us just calling it out at the end. I desperately want this to end up as 
```py
    return code == uppercased_guess
```

Author: Added content to address this when cleaning up the functions after adding the uppercased helper.

```

Taking a look at these implementations, they work as they are supposed to – our tests pass after all! – but there are areas that could use some polish.

<br>

<details>
  <summary>
    Take a few minutes to examine the functions above, and identify areas of code that could be improved with respect to best practices or readability. Expand this section to see the issues we noted.
  </summary>

  **Areas for Improvement**
  1. `generate_code` and `validate_guess` require similar data about valid letters, but that data is duplicated in each function instead of being shared.
  2. `validate_guess` and `check_code_guessed` duplicate work by creating uppercased versions of the input in each function without using a shared helper function.

>   3. All of the functions create lists of data that do not require significant processing or data manipulation, but they are not using list comprehensions. List comprehensions are considered more pythonic, and better practice when working in Python 

Reviewer: In the revised code, only `validate_guess` doesn't use a comprehension. Still worth mentioning since it diverges from the other function for no particular reason.

Reviewer: Leaving unchanged since we're not bringing forward the pt. 1 rework.

  
  We could choose to note one other potential area for improvement: `validate_guess` declares the `valid_letters` set before the guard clause that checks the length of `guess`, so the set is created even if it will never be used. 

>       - Since we already identified that we want `generate_code` and `validate_guess` to share a list of valid letters, this change will already be handled during the updates to share the letter data. 

Reviewer: It looks like the leading spaces is preventing this from being picked up as a paragraph followed by a bullet.
```suggestion
We could choose to note one other potential area for improvement: `validate_guess` declares the `valid_letters` set before the guard clause that checks the length of `guess`, so the set is created even if it will never be used. 
  - Since we already identified that we want `generate_code` and `validate_guess` to share a list of valid letters, this change will already be handled during the updates to share the letter data. 
```

    if len(guess) != 4:
        return False
    
    # Convert guess to uppercase for case-insensitive comparison
    uppercased_guess = uppercased_list(guess)

    # Return False if we find an invalid element of guess
    for letter in uppercased_guess:
        if letter not in VALID_LETTERS:
            return False
        
    return True

def check_code_guessed(guess, code):
    # Convert guess to uppercase for case-insensitive comparison
    uppercased_guess = uppercased_list(guess)

    # Check if the guess and code are identical (win condition)
    if code == uppercased_guess:
        return True
    else: # Game is still in progress
        return None
```

Copilot generated exactly what we asked for in this case!
- We have a new helper function `uppercased_list` that creates an uppercased list from the input
- Both functions now call `uppercased_list` instead of duplicating list creation code

There are a few clean up steps that we will choose to take:
1. Rename the new function `uppercased_list` to something that represents its responsibility in the project. The current name `uppercased_list` describes *what* the function does, but not its role in the system.

>     - Here we will choose a new function name `normalize_code` since the role of that function is to "normalize" our input by taking in a code using any mixture of letter casings and returning the code with all capital letters. 

Reviewer: Thanks for taking the name change for the helper!

    ... # Unchanged lines truncated

def normalize_code(code):
    """
    Normalizes the casing for a code by converting 
    the list of characters to uppercase.
    """    
    normalized_code = []
    for letter in code:
        normalized_code.append(str(letter).upper())
    return normalized_code
```

Now that our code is looking how we'd like, let's wrap up these changes by running the Wave 1 test suite and seeing those checkmarks stay green!

## Pythonic Code - Using List Comprehensions

For code to be considered "Pythonic" it should use the features of the Python language to be concise, readable, and performant. We should also focus on using Python language features in a way that the majority of other Python programmers would expect to see them used. This reasoning is a large part of why list comprehensions have been widely accepted by the Python community as the preferred way to create and fill a list, as long as the code still meets other style and readability best practices. 

After our improvements, we still have two places in `app/game.py` where we create and fill a list, and neither function is using a list comprehension:
- `generate_code`

> - `normalize_code`

Reviewer: If we bring forard the updates from the first part, we'd only need to refactor the new normalize_code (assuming copilot doesn't generate it that way to begin with). It would still be worth having this section, as that would bring `normalize_code` more into alignment with the other functions.

Even if copilot generates `normalize_code` with a comprehension and effectively fixes `validate_guess` when refactoring it along with `generate_code`, we could just mention that throguh working on other code, the refactoring steps already happened to fix our concern about not consistently using comprehensions. We could even still keep some of this text around how we might ask Copilot to fix a function if it hadn't already been fixed.

Reviewer: Leaving unchanged.

def check_code_guessed(guess, code):
    # Convert guess to uppercase for case-insensitive comparison
    uppercased_guess = []
    for letter in guess:
        uppercased_guess.append(str(letter).upper())

    # Check if the guess and code are identical (win condition)
    # The guard clause guarantees the number of guesses is 8 or less
    if code == uppercased_guess:
        return True
    else: # Code has not been guessed
        return False
```

Taking a look at these implementations, they work as they are supposed to – our tests pass after all! – but there are areas that could use some polish.

<br>

<details>
  <summary>
    Take a few minutes to examine the functions above, and identify areas of code that could be improved with respect to best practices or readability. Expand this section to see the issues we noted.
  </summary>

  **Areas for Improvement**
  1. `generate_code` and `validate_guess` require similar data about valid letters, but that data is duplicated in each function instead of being shared.
  2. `validate_guess` and `check_code_guessed` duplicate work by creating uppercased versions of the input in each function without using a shared helper function.

>   3. `check_code_guessed` is using an antipattern to decide what we return. The functions uses an if/else to decide whether we return `True` or `False`, when we should directly return the result of comparing the `guess` and `code`

Author: ```suggestion
  3. `check_code_guessed` is using an antipattern to decide what we return. The functions uses an if/else to decide whether we return `True` or `False`, when we should directly return the result of comparing the `guess` and `code`.
```

>   4. All of the functions create lists of data that do not require significant processing or data manipulation, but they are not using list comprehensions. List comprehensions are considered more pythonic, and better practice when working in Python 

Author: ```suggestion
  4. All of the functions create lists of data that do not require significant processing or data manipulation, but they are not using list comprehensions. List comprehensions are considered more pythonic, and better practice when working in Python.
```

We could choose to note one other potential area for improvement: `validate_guess` declares the `valid_letters` set before the guard clause that checks the length of `guess`, so the set is created even if it will never be used.  
- Since we already identified that we want `generate_code` and `validate_guess` to share a list of valid letters, this change will already be handled during the updates to share the letter data. 

</details>

> We will investigate and update the 3 issues we identified throughout the rest this lesson. If you came up with more items than we listed, feel free to explore those as practice!

Reviewer: There are 4 issues in the details now, so minor fix. 
```suggestion
We will investigate and update the 4 issues we identified throughout the rest this lesson. If you came up with more items than we listed, feel free to explore those as practice!
```

Author: Thanks for catching this, I'll remove the exact number in case this changes in the future.

> We will investigate and update the 3 issues we identified throughout the rest this lesson. If you came up with more items than we listed, feel free to explore those as practice!

Author: ```suggestion
We will investigate and update the issues we identified in the drop down above throughout the rest of this lesson. If you came up with more items than we listed, feel free to explore those as practice!
```

> 

Reviewer: Also, I'm wondering whether folks will be comfortabler with the antipattern description and what the problem is. Maybe an additional callout? We wrap this up really quickly later, but I could allso see this information being down there. It's just that both places we talk about this are in bulleted content, making the addition of a callout a little awkward.

My suggestion contains code quotes, so I can't do it as a direct suggestion, but if you get the raw markdown of the next comment, that's my suggestion. Not sure whether here or later (or reworked) would be most appropriate, but since I'm unsure how much we talk about antipatterns elsewhere, and this is one that really bothers me, and as students might not see _why_ it's redundant, I thought something like this would help.

Reviewer: ### !callout-info

## Avoiding Antipatterns

There are many patterns that we will learn to recognize and use in our code. But there are also patterns that have been observed to cause problems in the long run, even if the code is technically correct. The antipattern listed in our areas of improvement, sometimes called the "redundant conditional" is one such antipattern.

In most programming languages, `if` statements take a Boolean conditional. Using comparison operations, such as `==`, `<`, `>`, etc., produce a Boolean value expressing the relationship between the values being compared. If we need to return `True` when our conditional is `True`, and `False` when our conditional is `False`, it's redundant to actually write a full `if` statement. Rather than performing the comparison and then returning a Boolean based on the result of the comparison, we can return the result of the comparison directly.

Coders with less experience often tend to use comparison operators only in `if` conditionals. But just like more familiar mathematical operators, they produce a value result (in this case, a Boolean value) that we can use in other expressions, or even `return`. What this means is that where we might be tempted to write code such as
```py
    if a == b:
        return True
    else:
        return False
```

once we stop thinking about comparison operators as something special, we would prefer to write that as
```py
    return a == b  # comparison result is already either True or False
```

### !end-callout

Author: Thank you for writing up the callout! I think it's worth placing the info up here, it keeps the refactoring section more focused, and I know for some folks it can be distracting for an important explanation to be separated from the introduction of the content.

Before we make changes to working code, we want to make sure that we have tests for any code that could be affected by our updates. 
- Running the tests before and after we make changes gives us confidence that our functions still behave as expected. 
- If anything does go wrong, we can debug the functions using our tests to help us identify what broke. 

Happily, we not only have tests for each function in Wave 1, but we added more test scenarios in the last lesson to cover missing edge cases! We can move forward with our code changes using the existing test suite to give us some security.

As with the `main` branch, only the tests in `tests/test_wave_1.py` should be discoverable and running currently, since we do not have placeholders in `app/game.py` for the remaining waves. Before we start a conversation with Copilot or change any code, we should ensure that we can run all the Wave 1 tests and see them pass.

To get started:
1. using your fork of the repo, checkout the branch [improvements-start](https://github.com/Ada-Activities/mastermind-copilot/tree/improvements-start) 
2. ensure you can run the wave 1 tests and see them pass

### !callout-info

## Saving Project Changes

> If we want to keep any local changes that we made in the previous lesson, we recommend pausing to create a new branch from `main` and commit your changes before checking out the `improvements-start` branch. Git will not allow us to switch branches if we have uncommitted changes that would be overwritten by the destination branch.

Reviewer: If it's the case that students will encounter this material before our branching material, this feels like a good place to drop a collapsible sumamry/detail that could provide some commands for folks to run (hopefully avoiding the need for much detail at this point).

### !end-callout

## Identifying Code for Improvement

> Let's review the implementations of the functions for Wave 1 on the `improvements-start` branch to get familiar with the changes and start looking for places where we could better follow best practices.

Reviewer: Though perfectly correct as is, the "better follow best" sits funny with me. How about a rephrase to avoid better and best being jammed together like that.

```suggestion
Let's review the implementations of the functions for Wave 1 on the `improvements-start` branch to get familiar with the changes and start looking for places where we could be more mindful of best practices.
```

    for _ in range(4):
        code.append(random.choice(valid_letters))

    return code

def validate_guess(guess):
    valid_letters = {'R', 'O', 'Y', 'G', 'B', 'P'}

    # Exit early if guess is not exactly 4 elements long
    if len(guess) != 4:
        return False
    
    # Convert guess to uppercase for case-insensitive comparison
    uppercased_guess = []
    for letter in guess:
        uppercased_guess.append(str(letter).upper())

    # Return False if we find an invalid element of guess
    for letter in uppercased_guess:
        if letter not in valid_letters:
            return False
        
    return True

def check_win_or_lose(guess, code, num_guesses):
    # Exit early if the number of guesses exceeds 8
    if num_guesses > 8:
        return False

    # Convert guess to uppercase for case-insensitive comparison
    uppercased_guess = []
    for letter in guess:
        uppercased_guess.append(str(letter).upper())

    # Check if the guess and code are identical (win condition)
    # The guard clause guarantees the number of guesses is 8 or less
    if code == uppercased_guess:
        return True
    else: # Game is still in progress
        return None
```

> Taking a look at these implementations, they work as they are supposed to – our tests pass after all! – but there are areas where we could better follow best practices.

Reviewer: Similar rephrase as above with a little variety
```suggestion
Taking a look at these implementations, they work as they are supposed to – our tests pass after all! – but there are areas that could use some polish.
```

<br>

<details>
  <summary>

>     Take a few minutes to examine the functions above, and identify areas of code that could be improved to better follow best practices or increase readability. Expand this section to see the issues we noted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Take a few minutes to examine the functions above, and identify areas of code that could be improved with respect to best practices or readability. Expand this section to see the issues we noted.
```

  </summary>

  **Areas for Improvement**
  1. `generate_code` and `validate_guess` require similar data about valid letters, but that data is duplicated in each function instead of being shared.
  2. `validate_guess` and `check_win_or_lose` duplicate work by creating uppercased versions of the input in each function without using a shared helper function.
  3. All of the functions create lists of data that do not require significant processing or data manipulation, but they are not using list comprehensions. List comprehensions are considered more pythonic, and better practice when working in Python 
  

>   <br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  We could choose to note one other potential area for improvement: 
  - `validate_guess` declares the `valid_letters` set before the guard clause that checks the length of `guess`, so the set is created even if it will never be used. 
  Since we already identified that we want `generate_code` and `validate_guess` to share a list of valid letters, this change will already be handled during the updates to share the letter data. 

</details>

> We will investigate and update the 3 issues we identified through this lesson. If you came up with more items than we listed, feel free to explore those as practice!

Reviewer: Suggestion for minor phrasing ambiguity in "through" being either "by means of" or "until the end". i.e., is the lesson how we identified these issues, or where we'll address them. (I think the core of the ambiguity of the "we identified" phrase, but just hanging the ending clears the issue for me without reordering the rest.)
```suggestion
We will investigate and update the 3 issues we identified throughout the rest this lesson. If you came up with more items than we listed, feel free to explore those as practice!
```

## D.R.Y. - Sharing Data Structures in `generate_code` and `validate_guess`

Once we see our Wave 1 tests passing using the current implementations of `generate_code` and `validate_guess`, we can move over to `app/game.py`. 

### Organizing the Prompt

Before we send anything to Copilot, let's organize our information. We know:
- `generate_code` and `validate_guess` require similar data about valid letters
- we want to move the similar data structures out of each function and share them through something like a global variable

<br>

<details>
  <summary>
    Take a moment to write up a prompt that requests the changes for these functions. When you're done, expand this section to see the prompt we will use.
  </summary>

  **Prompt:**

>   > Please update the generate_code and validate_guess functions to share a single data structure to represent valid_letters. The data structure should be a set type and should be placed where both functions have access to it. Do not make any other changes to the functions.

Reviewer: Would rephrasing to an affirmative prompt be useful? Clearly, it work as phrased, but this can help forming the habit of telling an AI what to do, rather than what not to do. (The supplied rephrasing also resulted in the creation of VALID_LETTERS as shown in the reading, including the `list` construction.)
```suggestion
  > Please update the generate_code and validate_guess functions to share a single data structure to represent valid_letters. The data structure should be a set type and should be placed where both functions have access to it. Only update how the variable in each function is used, nothing else.
```

Reviewer: I see this pattern is being used further down as well, and there it also has a screenshot of the prompt. I'd still prefer to use affirmative prompting, but this is feeling like a bigger change now, and since it's working, I'm fine with leaving it as is.

>   <br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>   We specifically chose to add _"Do not make any other changes to the functions."_ to our prompt because in testing, we saw that Copilot would often try to make several changes to the function at the same time. This makes it less clear which changes are related to our initial ask vs what Copilot thought would improve the code. 

Reviewer: To parallel the above suggestion.

```suggestion
  We specifically chose to add _"Only update how the variable in each function is used, nothing else."_ to our prompt because in testing, we saw that Copilot would often try to make several changes to the function at the same time. This makes it less clear which changes are related to our initial ask vs what Copilot thought would improve the code. 
```

>   <br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```py
VALID_LETTERS = {'R', 'O', 'Y', 'G', 'B', 'P'}

def generate_code():
    code = []
    
    # Generate a code of 4 random letters from VALID_LETTERS
    for _ in range(4):
        code.append(random.choice(list(VALID_LETTERS)))

    return code

def validate_guess(guess):
    # Exit early if guess is not exactly 4 elements long
    if len(guess) != 4:
        return False
    
    # Convert guess to uppercase for case-insensitive comparison
    uppercased_guess = []
    for letter in guess:
        uppercased_guess.append(str(letter).upper())

    # Return False if we find an invalid element of guess
    for letter in uppercased_guess:
        if letter not in VALID_LETTERS:
            return False
        
    return True
```

This is close to what we want! 
- We have a shared data structure that's a set like we wanted
- No unrelated sections of code were changed

As we look at this code, we need to ask ourselves, "Is this new code following best practices and acting efficiently?" 
- Examining how the loops were changed, `validate_guess` looks fine, but how does Copilot's code use the shared data structure `VALID_LETTERS` in `generate_code`'s loop? 

> There's something interesting happenning with the changes in `generate_code`. `random.choice` does not work with set data structures, so in the code Copilot generated, every iteration of the loop creates a new list from the `VALID_LETTERS` set. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There's something interesting happening with the changes in `generate_code`. `random.choice` does not work with set data structures, so in the code Copilot generated, every iteration of the loop creates a new list from the `VALID_LETTERS` set. 
```

- The loop would be more efficient if the function only created a list from `VALID_LETTERS` once before the loop starts. 

We could ask Copilot to make this change for us, but it would be quicker to accept the code as-is, then make this small adjustment ourselves. We'll do just that, then run our Wave 1 test suite to ensure we see the tests pass and both of our functions still work as expected.

Our new version of `generate_code` will look like:

```py
VALID_LETTERS = {'R', 'O', 'Y', 'G', 'B', 'P'}

def generate_code():
    code = []
    
    # Generate a code of 4 random letters from VALID_LETTERS
    letters_list = list(VALID_LETTERS)
    for _ in range(4):
        code.append(random.choice(letters_list))

    return code
```

## D.R.Y. - Helper Function for `validate_guess` and `check_win_or_lose`

In this next change, we'll follow a similar pattern as before, but this time we'll work from the Copilot Chat pane.

We will:
1. Gather our information and create a prompt
2. Ensure `app/game.py` is open and has editor focus so it is added to the Copilot chat's context
3. Press `⌃⌘I` (`CTRL + CMD + i`) to bring up the Copilot Chat pane 
4. Start a new chat and enter our prompt

> 5. Critcally review the code Copilot generates 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Critically review the code Copilot generates 
```

  </summary>

  **Prompt:**
  > Please create a function that takes in a list of characters and returns a new list in the same order, but with uppercased letters. Update the validate_guess and check_win_or_lose functions to remove repeated code that handles creating an uppercased list and use the new helper function instead. Do not make any other changes to the functions.

</details>

### Updating `validate_guess` and `check_win_or_lose`

Next we're going to bring up the Copilot Chat UI and submit our prompt. 

![VS Code previewing suggested code for validate_guess and check_win_or_lose in the editor pane next to the Copilot Chat pane discussing the code updates](assets/improving-code-copilot/dry-copilot-chat-create-helper-function.png)  
*Fig. Copilot previewing a helper function and updates for `validate_guess` and `generate_code`. ([Full size image](assets/improving-code-copilot/dry-copilot-chat-create-helper-function.png))*

When Copilot has finished generating suggestions, we can examine the updated code:

```py

> def uppercase_list(char_list):

Reviewer: It would ne nice if this were called something like `normalize_code`. Yes, it's uppercasing the list, but the list is really a code, and uppercasing is just what we happen to need to do in this case to normalize it. Could we include a callout about the naming that touches on this? Or maybe rework the later paragraph that talks about moving the function as a potential follow-up update? It could touch on how `uppercase_list` describes _what_ the function does, but not its role in the system. It might even be reasonable to both make a function `uppercase_list` that describes clearly the _what_ rather than the potential noise of needing to properly call `upper` iteratively in multiple places, _as well as_ `normalize_code`, whcih then describes its purpose relative to the rest of the code. If there were further transformations that needed to be applied to a code, it code be called from `normalize_code` without impact to `uppercase_list`.

    uppercased_guess = uppercase_list(guess)

    # Check if the guess and code are identical (win condition)
    # The guard clause guarantees the number of guesses is 8 or less
    if code == uppercased_guess:
        return True
    else: # Game is still in progress
        return None
```

Copilot generated exactly what we asked for in this case!
- We have a new helper function `uppercase_list` that creates an uppercased list from the input
- Both functions now call `uppercase_list` instead of duplicating list creation code

One change that we might choose to make, is to move `uppercase_list` down in the file to below `validate_guess` and `check_win_or_lose`. Different engineering teams will have different style guides that might define where helper functions go. 
- For our example, we want to keep the functions required by the project in the README together, so we will accept the changes as-is and manually move `uppercase_list` down where we want it.

Now that our code is looking how we'd like, let's wrap up these changes by running the Wave 1 test suite and seeing those checkmarks stay green!

## Pythonic Code - Using List Comprehensions

> For code to be considered "Pythonic" it should use the features of the Python language to be concise, readable, and performant. This reasoning is a large part of why list conprehensions have been widely accepted by the Python community as the preferred way to create and fill a list, as long as the code still meets other style and readability best practices. 

Reviewer: Perhaps acknowledge the importance of following community expectations?
```suggestion
For code to be considered "Pythonic" it should use the features of the Python language to be concise, readable, and performant. We should also focus on using Python language features in a way that the majority of other Python programmers would expect to see them used. This reasoning is a large part of why list conprehensions have been widely accepted by the Python community as the preferred way to create and fill a list, as long as the code still meets other style and readability best practices. 
```

*Fig. Copilot previewing changes to use list comprehensions in `generate_code` and `uppercase_list`. ([Full size image](assets/improving-code-copilot/comprehensions-copilot-chat-generate-code-validate-guess.png))*

The suggested updates for `generate_code` and `uppercase_list` look like:

```py
def generate_code():
    # Generate a code of 4 random letters from VALID_LETTERS
    letters_list = list(VALID_LETTERS)
    code = [random.choice(letters_list) for _ in range(4)]

    return code

...

def uppercase_list(char_list):
    """Convert a list of characters to uppercase."""
    uppercased_list = [str(letter).upper() for letter in char_list]
    return uppercased_list
```

Comprehensions can take some adjusting to, but once comfortable with them, they provide a great way to concisely perform the same work we do in a loop! Here we can see that our code is shorter, but we are still following PEP8 best practices like keeping our line lengths 79 characters or less. 

These comprehensions faithfully represent the loops we had before, nothing else was changed or added, so we will accept these changes, then run our Wave 1 test suite for the last time (in this lesson 😉).

> To check out the final version of our Wave 1 code all in one place, take a look at the [`improvements-end`](https://github.com/Ada-Activities/mastermind-copilot/tree/improvements-end) branch of the `mastermind-copilot` repo.

Reviewer: improvements-end looks to contain additional code in `mastermind.py`. Was that intentional?

Author: No, it was also in another branch as a holdover from testing. That file has been cleared out on all branches now.

## Summary

This hands-on experience in a project wraps up our whirlwind tour of GitHub's Copilot! Whether we're writing new code or working in an existing codebase, Copilot can help us with tasks like generating ideas for tests, surfacing scenarios we may have missed, and generally writing code more quickly. Even when Copilot's suggestions look good at a glance, we always need to carefully proofread them both for correctness and completeness. Just because a code suggestion works does not mean it fits all of our needs, so we need to remain vigilant and critical of what Copilot provides.

For more practice with Copilot, think about revisiting familiar projects! When we already have a reasonable idea of what the end product could look like, we can devote more focus to practicing new skills.

## Check for Understanding

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
### !challenge
* type: ordering
* id: b53afd64-55e1-4670-8d3b-bce1ca3b8872
* title: Copilot in Projects Pt. 2 - Improving Wave 1
##### !question

> Based on the process we follwed for updating code with Copilot in this lesson, place the steps below for updating code with Copilot in order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on the process we followed for updating code with Copilot in this lesson, place the steps below for updating code with Copilot in order.
```

##### !end-question
##### !answer

1. Ensure tests exist for code that will change
2. Run the test suite and ensure that tests pass
3. Gather requirements for the code changes
4. Write a prompt that represents our requirements
5. Open the Copilot UI and submit our prompt

> 6. Critcally review the code Copilot generates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Critically review the code Copilot generates
```

7. Update suggested code as necessary either manually or through the Copilot interface
8. Run the test suite and ensure that tests pass

##### !end-answer
##### !hint

> - Can we start making any changes confidently if we don't have tests?

Reviewer: This hint helps a lot!
